Now it's finally time to use the login API
that we built in previous sections
and there is a ton of stuff to do here
in order to make the front-end interact with the back-end.
And so we're doing this in separate lectures.
Anyway, let's now get started.
And this is how it's gonna work.
So, we're gonna allow users to log into our website
by doing an HTTP request, or an ATEX call
as many people like to call it also.
And we're doing that HTTP request to the login API end point
that we implemented before using the data
that the user provides in this form that we have here.
So, remember that our API will then send back a cookie
which automatically gets stored in the browser.
And also automatically gets send back
with each subsequent request.
And as you will see, this is a fundamental key
in order to make our authentication system work.
But anyway, since we're doing
this HTTP request in the browser,
we will, of course, again, be working on the client side.
But anyway, since we're doing
an HTTP request in the browser,
we'll still be working on client side jobs script code.
So just like we did with the Mapbox implementation.
Alright?
So let's now go ahead and create a new file here.
And so that's in public, js, and new file,
which I'm gonna call login.js
and in the next video, we're actually going to bundle
all these separate JavaScript files
that we're creating here for the front-end
together into one big bundle.
Alright?
But for now, let's actually just focus on making
this login functionality work.
But anyway, let's now start by adding an event listener,
listening for the submit event on our login form, okay?
So, our login form has this form class here.
Okay, so let's now select this for element
and then on there, listen for the submit event.
I hope that you're familiar with this kind of logic
in the client-side JavaScript.
And so hopefully, this is nothing new for you.
So, document.querySelector,
which we use in order to select based on the class.
Add then that Selector name,
and now add EventListener, listening for the submit event.
So basically, an event that the browser will fire off
whenever a user clicks on the submit button on the form.
Add then in the collect function,
we're gonna have access to that event itself, okay?
And so the third thing that we actually do
is to say event.preventDefault.
Okay?
So this prevents the form from la-loading any other page.
Next up, let's actually get the email
and the password value that the user puts in.
And so these are, in this element, with the ID email,
and the ID password, okay?
So these two input fields
and let's get this data as well.
(typing on a keyboard)
So document,
get element by ID.
Email, and then we use the value property
in order to reach that value out there.
Not nodeValue, just value.
Let's duplicate this line, okay?
And so now let's do the actual logging in
in a separate function, okay?
Now we get here, this eslint error
and that's again because we have eslint
only configurated for not JS code.
And so let's actually disable that just like we did here.
So just grab this piece of code.
Alright?
And now as I was saying,
let's now create that login function.
So and just like this,
and this function is going to accept
an email and and a password.
And first of all,
let's just see if this code is actually working.
So we're going to alert,
so basically create an alert window.
And with this email and password.
Alright?
Now of course we also need to call this function
again with email and password.
And then finally, we also need to include this login file
into our base template, alright?
And again, as I was saying in the beginning,
in the next video, we're going to bundle
all of this front-end code here together
into one big JavaScript file.
Alright?
So that's a lot better for performance
and it's also a better developer experience for ourselves.
Anyway, this should now be working.
Let's just reload this page here.
So I have to fill in, validate here,
anyway, Chrome will not even allow me to submit the form.
Alright, so here we get our alert
with the email we just put in
and then the password, I guess,
doesn't show up because
we kind of specified two values there.
So instead, let's specify an object here
and see if it works then again.
(typing on a keyboard)
Well, I guess it tries to convert
that object to a string here.
Okay, but, it doesn't really matter here.
I'm usually more used to using Console.log instead of alert.
Alright?
But anyway, I'm sure it's working now here.
And so let's now go ahead and create this function.
So, in order to do these HTTP requests for the login,
we are going to use
a very popular library called Axios, okay?
And in the next video we're actually going to download
this library from NPM and bundle it together
with all our other scripts,
but for now, let's use it from a CDN.
So, let's just Google
Axios CDN, alright?
Then, go ahead and copy this one here,
and then, in our base script,
let's put it right here at the first one, alright?
So this will then expose
an Axios object to the global scope,
which we can then use in our login function, okay?
And so we can then now say Axios,
and then pass in the options for our request.
So first off, let's say that we're doing a post-request.
Then, we need a URL.
Alright?
So let's actually get that from Postman.
So, this is our URL here.
And we're also going to, of course,
append the host then on there.
So then here of course, it is http
and then local host basically.
And,
so this is our login input,
and now we need to specify the data
that we're sending along with the request in the body.
Alright?
And so that is email: email.
And so, as you already know, we can remove this email.
Okay?
So it's called email here, because our end point
expects the data to be called email, right?
So that's what we have here in the body.
We need to specify a property called email,
and one called password.
And so that's exactly what we're doing here
but it then has the same name as this parameter here.
And so it's enough to just say email
and the same applies for the password.
Okay?
Now, Axios here then returns a promise
and so let's actually use a single await
in order to wait for that value to come back.
So await here, and then async right here.
Now, keep in mind that this is client-facing code
and only the more modern browsers
can actually run a single await functions
but in this course, I'm not really going to go into that.
Okay?
Anyways, let's save the result of this awaiting the promise
into the result variable.
And then just, to take a look at the result,
let's say console.log result.
Okay?
Now one thing that I really like about Axios
is the fact that it's going to throw an error
whenever we get an error back from our API input.
So let's say that there is a wrong password
and so the server will send back a 403
and so basically, an error.
And so whenever there is an error,
Axios will trigger an error as well.
And so, that's very handy because, with that,
we can now use a try catch block.
Okay?
So basically in order to do some error handling
here on the client side.
So, for example,
when the user is correctly logged in,
then you want to display some message saying that,
and maybe some other logic,
but if not, well, then we're going to be entering
the catch block,
and can then, take some other action based on the error.
(typing on a keyboard)
So, let's take a look at the error as well.
And just to make sure, I also want to log the email
and password to the console.
So, let's try that here.
Reload our page,
(typing on a keyboard)
And I'm putting a wrong password in now, okay?
Test one, two, three, four, five.
Let's take a look at our console here as well.
And we get this error here from mapbox, js,
but don't worry about that.
We're going to fix that a bit later again.
Bur for now, let's take a look at what happens here.
And here we get some nice error, alright?
And so, actually when we need to take a look at here
is error.response.
And then point data.
Okay, and you will find this here in the Axios documentation
in case you're wondering where that is coming from.
Alright?
Let me actually just go ahead and copy this email because
it's not so good to always write it out manually.
And now we actually get some nicely formatted error here.
Okay?
And so this is basically exactly the jsencode
that we sent back from our server.
Right?
So, this is exactly the same
as we've been seeing in Postman.
So we get our entire error, the message, and also the stack.
And so we see that we probably didn't provide
the email and password correctly for some reason.
So let's go back, take a look.
Oh, so I did something weird here
where I passed an object with
both the email and the password.
And so I think that that's from before
when it tried to do that alert
and I guess I did this in the wrong place.
And so, that's why we actually saw undefined here.
And here we got this object.
So basically, email was this entire object,
and password was then this undefined.
Okay?
So now, this should fix it,
give it a reload.
Ah, now we get this correct error
that we were actually expecting.
So now it's an incorrect email or password
because I specified a wrong password, alright?
But now, let's actually remove the five
and so then test one, two, three, four, should be correct.
So, let's log in,
and now we get a 200 response.
So, a successful one.
So let's open this
and what we are actually interested in is the data.
So basically response.data
because this is then actually
where our jsen response is located.
So here, we get,
this data here, and we also get the status and the token.
And so, this is here our correct jsen web token
corresponding to this logged in user.
Now, what's really interesting
is to take a look at our cookies.
And we do that in Google Chrome at least
by clicking on this icon here
and then down here, you have the cookies.
And it also says that our connection is not secure
and that's simply because
we're not using HTTPS at this point,
but nevermind about that.
What matters here is that we now have this cookie
and indeed, it is called, jsen web token,
and it has exactly the jsen web token
that we see down here.
So, this is only the end, basically, of the string,
so you see that this is equal to what we have down here.
And it's this cookie here, will actually enable us
to build this entire authentication.
Again, because the browser will not send this cookie
along with every new request.
And let me actually show you in our back-end.
So let's go back there, and let's go to app.js.
And so now we're back in our note,
or actually in our Express code.
Now, in order to actually get access
to the cookies that are in our request.
In Express, we need to install a certain middleware.
And so we need to install that from an NPM package.
And so that's again, come to our other terminal
and then NPM install
the cookie parser.
Okay?
So basically, this package will then parse
all the cookies from the incoming request.
cookieParser.
Alright?
And now let's actually use it close to this body parser.
Okay?
So these two are very similar.
This first one parses the data from the body
and the second one parses the data from cookies.
And so now, if in this middleware here,
we can use request.cookies.
And so now for each request,
we will always display all the cookies in the console.
So, if we now re-load this page,
or really any other page,
and so let me just open this one here in a new tab.
So, if we now go back, we should see that cookie here.
And, indeed, here it is.
So this is the cookie that was just sent
into our application by loading that page in the browser.
And if I do that again,
then, you will see another one, right?
So here it is.
And so now we can use this in order to protect our route.
Alright, so let's try that out.
Okay?
But before we can do that,
we need in our off controller
to actually add that in here as well.
So right now, we're only reading the jsen web token
from the authorization header.
Right?
And only if they start with this bearer, kay?
So for the bearer token.
But now, we basically also want to read
the jsen web token from a cookie.
And so what we can do here is basically an else if,
so if there was no token in the authorization header,
well, then let's take a look at the cookies.
So request.cookies
.jsen web token.
So JWT, which is the name of the cookie,
and so therefore, in the cookies object,
there will be a property called JWT.
So this here, right?
And so if this exists, well,
then the token should be exactly that.
So request
.cookies
.jwt.
Okay.
And so now with this, we're also able to authenticate users
based on tokens sent via cookies
and not only the authorization header.
Great.
And just to test this out,
let's actually protect one of our routes here in the view.
And I will do that with this tour detail page, okay?
So that's just for testing
'cause of course it doesn't make much sense,
but I just wanted to show you that
as it is right now, our login is already working.
So let's import the authController here.
(typing on a keyboard)
And then, just like before, edit here into this route.
So authController.protect.
And so this is nothing new at this point.
And then only if the user is logged in,
we can go to the getTour.
Great.
So what I'm going to do now
is to basically delete this cookie first
just to show you what happens
when a non-logged in user tries to access that route now.
And so basically, if we remove this cookie,
it is like logging out the user, right?
So, if you now take a look our tours,
then that should look just fine.
But, if we now try to access this page,
we should get an error.
And indeed, there it is, saying that you are not logged in.
Fair enough.
So let's go back and let's actually log in.
Okay?
So here we go.
And then in the future,
we will of course also implement
like some alert windows here and all that good stuff.
But for now, again, let's just make it work.
And so you see that we're back
to having our nice cookie here, okay?
And so, let's now try to access this protected route.
And indeed, now it works.
Fantastic, that's really great already, right?
Now ideally, when a user is logged in,
we then want not to display these buttons here,
but instead, like some user menu or a picture of the user.
So basically showing,
that user is actually logged in, right?
So let's do that in the next video,
along with bundling all our JavaScript files together
in the front-end as I was explaining earlier.
So don't wait, let's move straight to the next one.
See you there.